Q1. List out the features of HTML5. 
Ans. The features of HTML5 are direct integration of audio and video, geolocation api, local storage for
    storing data for small time in browser, form improvements with data, time and color and attributes as 
    required and autofocus, added accessibility attributes, and best of canvas for graphic rendering.

Q2. What are HTML entities ? List out 5 commonly used HTML entities.
Ans. HTML entities are special codes to represent the symbols that are not present on the keyboard. These 
    starts with & symbol and ends with ; symbol.

    Some entities are - 

        &copy; - represent copyright sign
        &nbsp; - represent non breaking space
        &lt; - represent less than symbol 
        &gt; - represent greater than symbol 
        &rarr - represent right arrow

Q3. Define accessibility in the context of web development? Discuss why it's essential to create accessible
websites and how it benefits different user groups.

Ans. Web accessibility means that the website that is usable for everyone whether there is anyone with disability 
    can also make full use of website and interact with it and understand effectively. That means accessibile for everyone.
    It is important because it ensure that everyone has equal access to the website content and it improves the overall user 
    experience for the website as it reach a broad audience hence leading to higher rank of website. 
    It benefits user with visually disabled people by getting accessibile from screen readers, whereas hearing impaired people may use
    transcripts by making audio content understandable. Mobile users can also access the content through responsive layouts.

Q4. List any 3 ways which help us in improving the accessibility of HTML

Ans. The ways which helps us in improving the accessibility of content are that we can use html semantic elements 
    such as header, nav, main, article and footer that are equipped with assitive properties, using role attribute with the elements to 
    know the proper role of element, using proper coloring with the descriptive text and also add alt to image and add label for every input.
